---
title: Kannouta
date:  2018-02-22 20:00:00 +0100
---

Film and discussion with borderline europe and Sächsischer Flüchtlingsrat



Tunisia became one of the most important partner of EU-member-states'
migration policy. The country is supposed to be the "gatekeeper" to
Europe's borders. At the same time, it's economic situation only knew
one direction: downwards. EU's policy against migration leaves only a
few options to young Tunisians, to travel legally to Europe. They dare
to cross the Mediterranean by small wooden or inflatable boats. In the
documentary 'Kannouta', young Tunisians and their relatives tell about
their life reality and the reasons for such a life-threatening journey.


Afterwards, we will discuss the movie with it's makers Zied Ben Taleb
(direct and shots) and Margarete Twenhoeven (direct and shots),
moderated by Mark Gärtner (Saxon Refugee Council). The discussion will
be in English.


<hr>

Tunesien ist in den letzten Jahren ein wichtiger Partner für die
Migrationspolitik der EU-Mitgliedsstaaten geworden und soll als
„Türsteher“ vor den Grenzen Europas funktionieren. Gleichzeitig hat sich
die wirtschaftliche Situation des Landes immer mehr verschärft. Die
europäische Abschottung gegen Migration führt dazu, dass auch junge
Tunesier*innen wenig Möglichkeiten haben legal nach Europa zu reisen und
die Überfahrt in kleinen Holz- oder Schlauchbooten über das Mittelmeer
riskieren. Die Dokumentation "Kannouta" fragt junge Tunesier und ihre
Angehörigen nach ihrer Lebensrealität und den Gründen für die
lebensgefährliche Reise.


Im Anschluss werden wir den Film mit den beiden Filmemacher*innen Zied
Ben Taleb (Regie und Film) und Margarete Twenhoeven (Regie und Film),
moderiert von Mark Gärtner (Sächsischer Flüchtlingsrat e.V.) besprechen.
Das Filmgespräch wird auf Englisch stattfinden.


